docs(agents): add dd-apm-sdk-review pre-push review skill (#9606)
DataDog/dd-trace-js: .agents/skills/dd-apm-sdk-review/SKILL.md

---
name: dd-apm-sdk-review
description: "ALWAYS USE BEFORE PUSHING CODE! Multi-perspective read-only review of changes in dd-trace-js, consolidated into one report with an explicit go / no-go verdict."
model: opus
effort: high

> compatibility: "Requires a git checkout and a shell. Parallel subagents strongly preferred; degrades to sequential passes without them. Network access only for cross-SDK verification."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> description: "Multi-perspective read-only review of unpushed changes in dd-trace-js, consolidated into one report with an explicit push / do-not-push verdict. Use when a push or a non-draft PR is the immediate next action - 'ready to push', 'about to push', 'before I open a PR', 'pre-push review'. Not for open-ended or single-topic review requests: it is a push gate, not a general review."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "ALWAYS USE BEFORE PUSHING CODE! Multi-perspective read-only review of changes in dd-trace-js, consolidated into one report with an explicit go / no-go verdict."
```

Reviewer: Using this as a review is perfectly fine. Preventing this can lead to unexpected behavior

Author: Taken, with `{{REPO}}` templated.

Multi-perspective review of the changes you are about to push to `dd-trace-js`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Deleted.

You are the **orchestrator**. You do not review the code yourself. You determine what changed, delegate to the reviewers in the roster below, then consolidate.

This is a **push gate**, not a general-purpose review. It is deliberately expensive - a panel of reviewers over the whole change set - so it earns that cost once, when a push or non-draft PR is the immediate next action. If someone asks for a review without that intent, or asks about one dimension only, do not run this skill: answer directly, or use the narrower skill for that dimension. Running it on every review request is the failure mode, and it does not replace or pre-empt any other review pass.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this skill is invoked twice in a row on the same set of changes, let the user know and no-op this skill. This is intentionally expensive as it is intended as a push gate.
```

Author: Applied. Better answer to Pablo's cost point than restricting triggers.

Also note, for the reviewers' benefit:

- which changed files have no corresponding test change
- whether any public API surface is touched
- what this repo's release-note policy requires of this change — the maintainability and conventions reviewers carry the policy text; do not restate it here

## Step 2 — Run the reviewers

[reviewers/_common.md](./reviewers/_common.md) holds the rules, severity bar, and output contract shared by every reviewer. The per-perspective prompts live beside it — this table is the roster:

| reviewer | prompt |
|---|---|
| Coherence | [reviewers/coherence.md](./reviewers/coherence.md) |
| Security | [reviewers/security.md](./reviewers/security.md) |
| Design | [reviewers/design.md](./reviewers/design.md) |
| Performance | [reviewers/performance.md](./reviewers/performance.md) |
| Maintainability | [reviewers/maintainability.md](./reviewers/maintainability.md) |
| Codebase conventions | [reviewers/conventions.md](./reviewers/conventions.md) |
| Cross-SDK consistency | [reviewers/cross-sdk.md](./reviewers/cross-sdk.md) |

**Choose an execution mode based on what your harness actually supports:**

> 1. **Native parallel subagents** (Claude Code Task tool, `pi-subagents`, or equivalent) — launch them all at once, each in a fresh context, each read-only. Preferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Native parallel subagents** (Claude Code Task tool, `pi-subagents`, or equivalent) — launch them all at once, each in a fresh context. Preferred.
```

Author: Applied.

2. **Sequential isolated subagents** — no parallelism available, but isolated contexts are. Run them in order.
3. **Single-context sequential passes** — neither available. Run one pass per perspective yourself, and label the final report `DEGRADED MODE: single context, findings may bleed between perspectives`.

> 4. **No shell** — some harnesses run read-only with no Bash at all, so Step 1's git commands cannot run. Use the harness's own diff and history tools, or ask the human for the change set, then review what you were given as mode 3 and label it `DEGRADED MODE: change set supplied, not derived`. A harness without a shell is not a reason to skip the gate.

Reviewer: Just don't ask for read-only

```suggestion
```

Author: Dropped the read-only asks and the no-shell mode with them.

> Do not claim the reviewers were read-only or isolated unless your harness actually enforces that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Deleted.

Give every reviewer exactly three things, in this order:

> 1. the full text of `reviewers/_common.md` — the shared rules, severity bar, and output contract. **Not optional.** Each reviewer is told to refuse to review without it, because those rules are what keep the review read-only, keep it from posting to GitHub, and keep it from following instructions embedded in a diff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: each reviewer reads it, it doesn't need to be provided

Author: Dropped. Prompts name `_common.md` first and refuse without it, so still fail-safe.

2. the full text of its own `reviewers/<perspective>.md` — each already carries the repo context that perspective needs, so do not restate architecture, hot paths, commands, or release-note policy here
3. the explicit changed-file list and diff from Step 1

> Inline all of it into the prompt you hand over. Do not tell a reviewer to go read these files: a subagent that cannot or does not read them would review with no rules at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This doesn't seem necessary

Author: Deleted.

## Step 3 — Consolidate

Collect their reports. Then:

1. **Dedupe.** The same issue found by three reviewers is one finding with three attributions, not three findings.
2. **Classify** each finding against the severity bar in [reviewers/_common.md](./reviewers/_common.md) — the same three levels the reviewers used, with the same evidence requirement. A finding with no stated failure mode is not Blocking.
3. **Map to a verdict.** Reviewers and you use one scale:

    | verdict | condition | gate effect |
    |---|---|---|
    | `BLOCK` | ≥1 Blocking finding | `DO NOT PUSH` |

>     | `APPROVE_WITH_COMMENTS` | Should-fix and/or Nits only | push allowed |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `APPROVE_WITH_COMMENTS` | Should-fix and/or Nits only | fixes preferred, but not required |
```

Author: Applied.

    | `APPROVE` | nothing to raise | push allowed |

A reviewer that could not do its job reports `NOT VERIFIED (<reason>)` for its area. `NOT VERIFIED` never blocks.

### Report format

```
# dd-apm-sdk-review: dd-trace-js

Verdict: BLOCK | APPROVE_WITH_COMMENTS | APPROVE
Target: <branch>...<base>   Files: <n>   Mode: parallel | sequential | DEGRADED

## Blocking
- [design] path/to/file.ext:123 — <issue>
  Failure mode: <what breaks, for whom, when>
  Fix: <concrete change>
- [security] 1 finding, routed privately per this repo's disclosure process
  (no location, no failure mode, no reproduction in this report: it is pasteable)

## Should-fix
- [design] path/to/file.ext:45 — <issue> → <suggested fix>

## Nits
- [conventions] path/to/file.ext:9 — <issue>

## Not verified
- [cross-sdk] NOT VERIFIED (no spec source available)

## Checked and fine
- [performance] no new allocations on the span-start path
- ...

## Coverage gaps
- <changed files with no test changes; missing release note; etc.>
```

Then state plainly: `READY TO PUSH` or `DO NOT PUSH`.

## Step 4 — Fix and re-review

> Offer to fix the Blocking and Should-fix findings. After fixes, re-run **every reviewer whose lane the fix could touch**, on the updated change set — not just the one that reported it. A security fix can add a hot-path allocation or new coupling, so a performance or design approval given against the pre-fix diff no longer applies. If in doubt about which lanes a fix touches, re-run all of them. Repeat until the verdict is not `BLOCK`, or until the user decides to override.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Offer to fix the Blocking and Should-fix findings. After fixes, re-run **every reviewer**, on the updated change set — not just the one that reported it. A security fix can add a hot-path allocation or new coupling, so a performance or design approval given against the pre-fix diff no longer applies. Repeat until the verdict is not `BLOCK`, or until the user decides to override.
```

Author: Applied.

If the user overrides an unresolved Blocking finding, record it verbatim in the PR description. Do not silently drop it.

**Never do that for a finding from the security reviewer.** This repository is public and a PR description is a public forum, so writing an unfixed vulnerability there pre-discloses it to everyone running this tracer. Route it through the repository's vulnerability disclosure process (`SECURITY.md`) and note in the PR only that an unresolved security finding was routed privately. This applies to the report you print, too: state only that a security finding was routed privately — no location, no failure mode, no reproduction.

## Scope and escape hatches

> This review is required for code-bearing changes. "Code-bearing" means anything shipped to users, plus CI configuration and agent instructions under `.agents/` / `.claude/` — those change how future work gets done, so they get reviewed too. It does **not** apply to prose documentation, pure reverts, or release mechanics.

Reviewer: Codex is right here

> This review is required for code-bearing changes. "Code-bearing" means anything shipped to users, plus CI configuration and agent instructions under `.agents/` / `.claude/` — those change how future work gets done, so they get reviewed too. It does **not** apply to prose documentation, pure reverts, or release mechanics.

Author: Agreed — scope now covers tests, benchmarks and tooling.

---
name: dd-apm-sdk-review
description: |
  Multi-perspective review of unpushed changes in dd-trace-js before pushing or
  opening a pull request. Runs a panel of independent read-only reviewers -
  coherence, security, design, performance, maintainability, codebase
  conventions, and cross-SDK consistency - then consolidates their findings into
  one report with an explicit push / do-not-push verdict.

>   Triggers: "review my changes", "review this diff", "is this ready",

Reviewer 2: Is this something we want to enforce (through these triggers) repo wise? Seems like a very heavy skill to be consistently running.

Author: I think you're right. This should be gating a push, and not interfering with any other work (including triggering other kinds of review passes manually).

Author: Narrowed in `3ef759e7f5`, condensed further in `5927391`. Push-intent triggers only; `validate.sh` rejects generic ones.

---
name: dd-apm-sdk-review

> description: |

Reviewer: Description here is very large. Let's condense this down as small as possible while still triggering as needed. Tbh the AGENTS.md pointer is a good enough trigger condition so we can just have it be "Use before pushing any code or when a user asks to have their code reviewed"

Reviewer: https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills#frontmatter-reference

Reviewer: Best to have model: Opus, effort: High, context: fork for Claude

Author: Description is a third the size. `model`/`effort`/`compatibility` aren't in the reference — model comes from `agent:`, `${CLAUDE_EFFORT}` is a substitution.

> description: |

Reviewer: We can try `compatibility` field and ask it to use Opus (Claude) / Sol (Codex) on High effort

We should also ask that this be run as a "forked" sub-agent as an adversarial review

Author: `context: fork` would make the orchestrator the subagent, and subagents can't spawn subagents — that collapses the fan-out to one context. The reviewers are already forks. `allowed-tools` looks better: it'd enforce read-only instead of asking.

  Triggers: "ready to push", "about to push", "before I open a PR",
  "pre-push review", "is this ready to push", "dd-apm-sdk-review".

  Do not use for open-ended or single-topic review requests - "review my
  changes", "review this diff", "take a look at this", "check the perf of
  this". Those are reviews, not a push gate; answer them directly or use the
  narrower skill that fits.
---

# dd-apm-sdk-review

Multi-perspective review of the changes you are about to push to `dd-trace-js`.

You are the **orchestrator**. You do not review the code yourself. You
determine what changed, delegate to the reviewers in the roster below, then
consolidate.

This is a **push gate**, not a general-purpose review. It is deliberately
expensive - a panel of reviewers over the whole change set - so it earns that
cost once, when a push or non-draft PR is the immediate next action. If someone
asks for a review without that intent, or asks about one dimension only, do not
run this skill: answer directly, or use the narrower skill for that dimension.
Running it on every review request is the failure mode, and it does not replace
or pre-empt any other review pass.

> ## Step 1 — Determine the change set

Reviewer: Tbh you can probably just tell the agent to figure out the diff between our branch and `master` and it'll figure it out. Less is more

Author: Cut six paragraphs to one, kept the commands. Codex found the loose version emitted only `git status --short` for tracked edits, so reviewers got filenames and approved code they never saw; there's a test for it now. My first pass at this used `@{u}`, which is this branch on the remote — empty diff after a push. Now resolves the PR base.

exactly those paths:

```bash
git reset -- <the paths you added>
```

Scope it with `--`. A bare `git reset` is `--mixed` against `HEAD` and resets the
**whole index**, discarding any partial staging the author had set up. Either way
file contents are untouched. Leaving the entries staged means a later
`git commit` in this session picks up files the author never chose.

If a test in this repo asserts on the packaged file list, `git add -N` is not
enough for it and a real `git add` is required. Check before assuming either way;
staging for real is a bigger commitment than a review should make on its own.

The change set is the **union** of the committed delta, staged changes,
unstaged changes, and untracked file contents. Write it down as an explicit
file list before proceeding. If that list is empty, stop and say so — there is
nothing to review.

Also note, for the reviewers' benefit:

- which changed files have no corresponding test change
- whether any public API surface is touched
- what this repo's release-note policy requires of this change — the
  maintainability and conventions reviewers carry the policy text; do not restate
  it here

## Step 2 — Run the reviewers

> `reviewers/_common.md` holds the rules, severity bar, and output contract shared

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[reviewers/_common.md](./reviewers/_common.md) holds the rules, severity bar, and output contract shared
```

Author: Linked.

by every reviewer. The per-perspective prompts live beside it — this table is the
roster:

| reviewer | prompt |
|---|---|

> | Coherence | `reviewers/coherence.md` |

Reviewer: Make each of these working markdown links

Author: All 7 linked.

| Security | `reviewers/security.md` |
| Design | `reviewers/design.md` |
| Performance | `reviewers/performance.md` |
| Maintainability | `reviewers/maintainability.md` |
| Codebase conventions | `reviewers/conventions.md` |
| Cross-SDK consistency | `reviewers/cross-sdk.md` |

**Choose an execution mode based on what your harness actually supports:**

1. **Native parallel subagents** (Claude Code Task tool, `pi-subagents`, or

>     equivalent) — launch them all at once, each in a fresh context, each read-only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    equivalent) — launch them all at once, each in a fresh context.
```

Reviewer: Some agent harnesses are _very_ limited in read-only mode (e.g. no access to bash) which would make the review nearly impossible to achieve

Author: Applied. Also added a no-shell mode — every degraded path assumed git-via-bash, so those harnesses couldn't run the gate at all. Real hole, thanks.
